Que: Understanding how to access and manipulate strings.
Ans:
string is collection of characters. it represents text data. in python string which is represented by
double quotes " " and single quote ' '. string which is immutable - we can't change it's value.

for access string:
str = “python”
print(str)

manipulate string:
1:len()
2:lower()
3:upper()
4:title()
5:capitalize()
6:strip()
7:find()
8:replace()
9:startswith()
10:endswith()
11:split()
12:join()
13:isalpha()
14:isdigit()
15:isalnum()
16:zfill()


Que: Basic operations: concatenation, repetition, string methods (upper(), lower(), etc.).
Ans: concatenation: for concatenation of string use “ + “ .

repetition : for repetition of string use “ * “.

string methods:

len(): Returns the length of a string
lower(): Converts all characters in the string to lowercase.
upper():Converts all characters in the string to uppercase.
capitalize(): Converts the first character of the string to uppercase and the rest to
lowercase.
title(): Converts the first character of each word in the string to uppercase.
strip(): Removes any leading (spaces at the beginning) and trailing (spaces at the
end) whitespace characters from the string.
replace(): Replaces a substring within the string with another substring.
string.replace(old, new, count)
find(): Searches for a substring and returns the index (position) of the first
occurrence. If the substring is not found, it returns -1.
startswith(): Checks if the string starts with the specified substring.
endswith(): Checks if the string ends with the specified substring.
split(): Splits the string into a list of substrings based on a specified delimiter (default is
whitespace).
join(): Joins a list of strings into a single string, with a specified separator between each
element.
isalpha(): Returns True if all characters in the string are alphabetic
isdigit(): Returns True if all characters in the string are digits
isalnum(): Returns True if all characters in the string are alphanumeric
zfill(): fill the string with zero until specific length satisfied.

Que: String slicing.
Ans: in this, we can extract a specific portion from string. It allows you to access specific part of a string using
index value.

string[start:end:step]
start= the index where slicing begins and index character included in result value.
stop= the index where slicing ends and index character not included in result value.
step= it decide how many character to skip.

str = “welcome to python”
print(str[0:4])

output: elco